Methodology and Explanation

For my data analysis, I scraped the NCAA graduation rates data from their website. I pulled the information that they display for each school and pulled the PDF’s using tools like Playwright. I pulled this information for Division I and Division II for the 2023-24 school year and Division I and Division II for the 2013-14 school year. After pulling this information, I worked on extracting the information within the PDFs.

To work on the PDFs, I started with PDFPlumber, which did some of the work, but did not successfully pull all the information that I needed. I then switched to using the NaturalPDF tool. With this tool I was able to create separate boxes around each section that I need and pull it with a few fixes here and there to get the columns to correctly align and pull all the information I needed. The information I pulled was the entirety of the first three pages which included:

- The top table located in page one with graduation percentages
- The student information located on the rest of page one
- The player information located on page two
- The graduation rates for each sport located on page three

I ran this for the 353 schools within Division I for each year and the schools within Division II. Once I had this information, I went to work on extracting the records from a sports fan website. It held both college and professional records. Because of the time allotted, I focused on the records and analysis for Division I only. From this, I was able to successfully get data of men’s basketball records and women’s basketball records for each year analyzed. I also extracted football records. With these records I had to manually input each column I needed from the records data, which included the games won, the games lost, and the win loss percentage. This was done manually as there were several schools with similar names or schools that had other names that needed to be paired together. To ensure that I had the most schools I could compare and the correct records, I matched them in Google Sheets by a simple copy and paste. Once these were added together, I was able to insert these into Pandas in Jupyter Notebook to create another column I needed to see if records had any changes on how many student athletes graduated.

Once added in Pandas, I created a ranking category that divided the schools into five categories, based off of their win loss percentage. I then calculated the averages and median for each category of the datasets. I also calculated how many schools received over a certain graduation percentage, looked at how many schools were at 100% graduation rate, and other information that I needed to know. All of the data and merging that I did manually was through Google Sheets, where I put together some information from different pages and needed overall numbers from these pages quickly.

Some schools did not have records for their schools located on this website, like Fairleigh Dickinson University Metropolitan Campus, and these were not included in the rankings. The ones not included within the ranking list to see the records data, were still included in the overall GSR averages within the story if they had this information available within the PDFs. Besides the charts of the records and the numbers containing the records, all schools were recognized. 98-100% of the schools were recognized within the records as well.

The photograph's within the piece are from outside sources, which are sourced within the index.html and the page of the piece. The first photograph was from Morry Gash from AP and the second photograph from Savannah Blake from The Gazette. 
